# Passing End User Attributes to the Backend

{!./includes/deploy/backend-jwt-intro.md!}

## Changing the JWT encoding to Base64URL encoding

The default backend JWT generator, `org.wso2.carbon.apimgt.impl.token.JWTGenerator`, encodes the value of the JWT using Base64 encoding. However, for certain apps you might need to have it in Base64URL encoding.

Use the following format to encode the JWT using Base64URL encoding, by adding the `base64url` in the `apim.jwt.encoding` element, which is in the `<API-M_HOME>/repository/conf/deployment.toml` file.

``` toml
[apim.jwt]
...
encoding = "base64url"
```

## Expiry time of the JWT

The JWT expiry time depends directly on whether caching is enabled in the Gateway Manager or Key Manager. The WSO2 API-M Gateway caching is enabled by default. However, if required, you can enable or disable the caching for the Gateway Manager or the Key Manager using the `apim.cache.gateway_token.enable` or `apim.cache.km_token.enable` elements respectively in the `<API-M_HOME>/repository/conf/deployment.toml` file. If caching is enabled for the Gateway Manager or the Key Manager, the JWT expiry time will be the same as the default cache expiry time.

The claims that are retrieved for the JWT access token generation are cached. You can set the expiry time of these JWT claims by setting the `apim.cache.jwt_claim.expiry_time` in the `<API-M_HOME>/repository/conf/deployment.toml` file:

``` toml
[apim.cache.jwt_claim]
enable = true
expiry_time = "900"
```
## Enabling the default backend JWT generator

Before passing end user attributes, you need to enable and configure the JWT implementation, as mentioned below in the default API Gateway.

1. Navigate to the `<API-M_HOME>/resources/conf/config.toml` file.

2. Enable and configure the JWT implementation.

     For more information, see [JWT generation configuration details](#jwt-generation-configuration-details).

3. [Start WSO2 API Manager]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/install/installing-the-product/running-the-api-m/#starting-the-server).

      This will start WSO2 API Manager in the all-in-one mode, which includes the default Gateway as well.

## Enabling a customized backend JWT generator

{!./includes/deploy/backend-jwt-note.md!}

### Customizing the JWT Generation completely

The JWT that is generated by default ([see example above](#sample-jwt)) has predefined attributes that are passed to the backend. These include basic application-specific details, subscription details, and user information that are defined in the JWT generation class that comes with WSO2 API Manager by the name `org.wso2.carbon.apimgt.keymgt.token.JWTGenerator`. 

Follow the instructions below if you want to pass additional attributes to the backend with the JWT or completely change the default JWT generation logic:

1.  Write your own custom JWT implementation class by extending the default `JWTGenerator` class. 

     A typical example of implementing your own claim generator is given below. It implements the `populateCustomClaims()` method to generate some custom claims and adds them to the JWT.  

    ``` java
    import org.wso2.carbon.apimgt.keymgt.APIConstants;
    import org.wso2.carbon.apimgt.keymgt.dto.APIKeyValidationInfoDTO;
    import org.wso2.carbon.apimgt.keymgt.token.JWTGenerator;
    import org.wso2.carbon.apimgt.api.*;

    import java.util.Map;

    public class CustomTokenGenerator extends JWTGenerator {
        public Map<String, String> populateStandardClaims(TokenValidationContext validationContext)
                throws APIManagementException {
            Map<String, String> claims = super.populateStandardClaims(validationContext);
            boolean isApplicationToken =
                    validationContext.getValidationInfoDTO().getUserType().equalsIgnoreCase(APIConstants.ACCESS_TOKEN_USER_TYPE_APPLICATION) ? true : false;
            String dialect = getDialectURI();
            if (claims.get(dialect + "/enduser") != null) {
                if (isApplicationToken) {
                    claims.put(dialect + "/enduser", "null");
                    claims.put(dialect + "/enduserTenantId", "null");
                } else {
                    String enduser = claims.get(dialect + "/enduser");
                    if (enduser.endsWith("@carbon.super")) {
                        enduser = enduser.replace("@carbon.super", "");
                        claims.put(dialect + "/enduser", enduser);
                    }
                }
            }
            return claims;
        }

        public Map<String, String> populateCustomClaims(TokenValidationContext tokenValidationContext) throws APIManagementException {
            Long time = System.currentTimeMillis();
            String text = "This is custom JWT";
            Map map = new HashMap();
            map.put("current_timestamp", time.toString());
            map.put("messge" , text);
            return map;
        }
    }
    ```

     Click here for a sample [Custom JWT Generator](https://github.com/wso2/samples-apim/tree/master/CustomJWTGenerator).

2.  [Build your class](https://dzone.com/articles/custom-jwt-generator-in-wso2-api-manager) and add the JAR file to the `<API-M_HOME>/repository/components/lib` directory where the node works as the Key Manager node.

3.  Add your class in the `apim.jwt.generator_impl` element of the `<API-M_HOME>/repository/conf/deployment.toml` file.

    ``` toml
    [apim.jwt]
    ...
    generator_impl = "org.wso2.carbon.test.CustomTokenGenerator"
    ```

4.  Set the `apim.jwt.enable` element to **true** in the `deployment.toml` file.

5.  [Start WSO2 API Manager]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/install/installing-the-product/running-the-api-m/#starting-the-server).

     This will start WSO2 API Manager in the all-in-one mode, which includes the default Gateway as well.

### Customizing the user-related claims in JWT

The JWT contains the list of user claims added when you enable the `apim.jwt.enable_user_claims` to `true` via the user store.

Follow the instructions below to change the existing functionality of retrieving end user related claims to the JWT:

1. Write your own Claim Retriever implementation by implmenting `org.wso2.carbon.apimgt.impl.token.ClaimsRetriever`.

    ``` java
    package org.wso2.carbon.test;

    import org.wso2.carbon.apimgt.api.APIManagementException;
    import org.wso2.carbon.apimgt.impl.token.ClaimsRetriever;

    import java.util.SortedMap;
    import java.util.TreeMap;
    import java.util.UUID;

    public class CustomClaimRetriever implements ClaimsRetriever {

        public void init() throws APIManagementException {
        //  Todo : initialize any variable for Claim retriever.
        }

        public SortedMap<String, String> getClaims(String endUserName) throws APIManagementException {

            SortedMap<String, String> claimsMap = new TreeMap();
            claimsMap.put("token-uuid", UUID.randomUUID().toString());
            if ("user1".equals(endUserName)){
                claimsMap.put("privileged", "true");
            }
            return claimsMap;
        }

        public String getDialectURI(String s) throws APIManagementException {

            return "http://wso2.org/claims";
        }
    }
    ```

    Click here for a sample [Custom Claim Retriever](https://github.com/wso2/samples-apim/tree/master/CustomJWTGenerator).

2. Build your class and JAR file in the `<API-M_HOME>/repository/components/lib` directory where the node works as the Key Manager node.

3. Set the `apim.jwt.claims_extractor_impl` to you class name.
```toml
[apim.jwt]
....
claims_extractor_impl="org.wso2.carbon.test.CustomClaimRetriever"
....
```

4. [Start WSO2 API Manager]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/install/installing-the-product/running-the-api-m/#starting-the-server).

      This will start WSO2 API Manager in the all-in-one mode, which includes the default Gateway as well.

## Backend JWT generator configuration details

{!./includes/deploy/backend-jwt-gw-note.md!}

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Element</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Default Value</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre><code>apim.jwt.enable</code></pre></td>
<td>Uncomment this property and set this value to <strong><code>true</code></strong> to enable JWT.</td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><pre><code>apim.jwt.header</code></pre></td>
<td>The name of the HTTP header to which the JWT is attached.</td>
<td>X-JWT-Assertion</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre><code>apim.jwt.enable_user_claims</code></pre></td>
<td>Uncomment this property and set this value to <strong><code>true</code></strong> to enable user claims in JWT in opaque Token</td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><pre><code>apim.jwt.claims_extractor_impl</code></pre></td>
<td>
Uncomment this configuration and configure custom Claim Retriever to add
custom claims into JWT when invocation token in opaque mode.
</td>
<td>org.wso2.carbon.apimgt.impl.token.DefaultClaimsRetriever</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><pre><code>apim.jwt.claim_dialect</code></pre></td>
<td><div class="content-wrapper">
<p>The dialect URI under which the user's claims are be looked for. Only works with the default value of the <code>apim.jwt.claims_extractor_impl</code> element defined above.</p>
<p>The JWT access token contains all claims that are defined in the <code>apim.jwt.claim_dialect</code> element. The default value of this element is <code>http://wso2.org/claims</code>. To get the list of a specific user's claims that need to be included in the JWT, simply uncomment this element after enabling the JWT. It will include all claims in <code>http://wso2.org/claims</code> to the JWT access token.</p>
</div></td>
<td>http://wso2.org/claims</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><pre><code>apim.jwt.convert_dialect</code></pre></td>
<td><div class="content-wrapper">
<p>In the Authorization code grant flow, backend JWT token contains claims from OIDC dialect even though
 <code>apim.jwt.claim_dialect</code> has been configured with the value <code>http://wso2.org/claims</code>. The
  reason is that claims are taken from AuthorizationGrantCache, which contains the OIDC claim dialect values. And
   this is happening due to a modification done to avoid the getUserClaimValues call to WSO2 user store during JWT
    generation. So, AuthorizationGrantCache is used for retrieving user claims.</p>
<p>In order to remap the OIDC claims into the configured dialect (by <code>apim.jwt.claim_dialect</code> value
), the <code>apim.jwt.convert_dialect</code> configuration value should be set to <code>true</code>.</p>
</div>
</td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><pre><code>apim.jwt.signing_algorithm</code></pre></td>
<td><p>The signing algorithm used to sign the JWT. The general format of the JWT is <code>              {token infor}.{claims list}.{signature}</code>. When NONE is specified as the algorithm, signing is turned off and the JWT looks as <code>{token infor}.{claims list}</code> with two strings delimited by a period and a period at the end.</p>
<p>This element can have only two values - the default values are `SHA256withRSA` or `NONE`.</p></td>
<td>SHA256withRSA</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre><code>apim.jwt.gateway_generator.impl</code></pre></td>
<td><p>Fully qualified custom JWT generator to used in JWT(Self Contained) Access Tokens</p></td>
<td>org.wso2.carbon.apimgt.gateway.handlers.security.jwt.generator.APIMgtGatewayJWTGeneratorImpl</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><pre><code>apim.jwt.gateway_generator.excluded_claims</code></pre></td>
<td><p>List of claims that are not supposed to be included in the Backend JWT when using JWT (Self Contained) Access Tokens</p></td>
<td>N/A</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

!!! tip
    You can use TCPMon or API Gateway debug logs to capture the JWT access token header with end user details. Follow the instructions below to enable the Gateway DEBUG logs for wire messages:

    1.  Go to the `<APIM_GATEWAY>/repository/conf` directory and open the `log4j2.properties` file with a text editor.
    2.  Add these two loggers to the list of loggers:<br/>
    <code>loggers = AUDIT_LOG, trace-messages,... <strong>, synapse-headers, synapse-wire</strong></code>

## See Also

If you want to learn how you can pass end user attributes to the backend when working with Choreo Connect, see [Passing Enduser Attributes to the Backend]({{base_path}}/deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/choreo-connect/passing-enduser-attributes-to-the-backend-via-choreo-connect), which is under the Choreo Connect documentation section.
